text_id: Text #: 50

source: Source:  First Annual Message. December 3, 1861.

full_text: "I am informed by some whose opinions I respect, that all the acts of Congress now in force, and of a permanent and general nature, might be revised and re-written, so as to be embraced in one volume (or at most, two volumes) of ordinary and convenient size. And I respectfully recommend to Congress to consider of the subject, and, if my suggestion be approved, to devise such plan as to their wisdom shall seem most proper for the attainment of the end proposed. \n\nOne of the unavoidable consequences of the present insurrection is the entire suppression, in many places, of all the ordinary means of administering civil justice by the officers and in the forms of existing law. This is the case, in whole or in part, in all the insurgent States; and as our armies advance upon and take possession of parts of those States, the practical evil becomes more apparent. There are no courts nor officers to whom the citizens of other States may apply for the enforcement of their lawful claims against citizens of the insurgent States; and there is a vast amount of debt constituting such claims. Some have estimated it as high as two hundred million dollars, due, in large part, from insurgents, in open rebellion, to loyal citizens who are, even now, making great sacrifices in the discharge of their patriotic duty to support the government.\n\nUnder these circumstances, I have been urgently solicited to establish, by military power, courts to administer summary justice in such cases. I have thus far declined to do it, not because I had any doubt that the end proposed---the collection of the debts---was just and right in itself, but because I have been unwilling to go beyond the pressure of necessity in the unusual exercise of power. But the powers of Congress I suppose are equal to the anomalous occasion, and therefore I refer the whole matter to Congress, with the hope that a plan may be devised for the administration of justice in all such parts of the insurgent States and Territories as may be under the control of this government, whether by a voluntary return to allegiance and order or by the power of our arms. This, however, not to be a permanent institution, but a temporary substitute,\n\nand to cease as soon as the ordinary courts can be re-established in peace.\n\nIt is important that some more convenient means should be provided, if possible, for the adjustment of claims against the government, especially in view of their increased number by reason of the war. It is as much the duty of government to render prompt justice against itself, in favor of citizens, as it is to administer the same, between private individuals. The investigation and adjudication of claims, in their nature belong to the judicial department; besides it is apparent that the attention of Congress, will be more than usually engaged, for some time to come, with great national questions. It was intended, by the organization of the court of claims, mainly to remove this branch of business from the halls of Congress; but while the court has proved to be an effective, and valuable means of investigation, it in great degree fails to effect the object of its creation, for want of power to make its judgments final.\n\nFully aware of the delicacy, not to say the danger, of the subject, I commend to your careful consideration whether this power of making judgments final, may not properly be given to the court, reserving the right of appeal on questions of law to the Supreme Court, with such other provisions as experience may have shown to be necessary. \n\nI ask attention to the report of the Postmaster General, the following being a summary statement of the condition of the department:\n\nThe revenue from all sources during the fiscal year ending June 30. 1861 , including the annual permanent appropriation of seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) for the transportation of ``free mail matter,'' was nine million, forty nine thousand, two hundred and nin[e]ty six dollars and forty cents ($9,049,296.40) being about two per cent. less than the revenue for 1860.\n\nThe expenditures were thirteen million, six hundred and six thousand, seven hundred and fifty nine dollars and eleven cents. ($13,606,759.11) showing a decrease of more than eight per cent. as compared with those of the previous year, and leaving an excess of expenditure over the revenue for the last fiscal year of four million, five hundred and fifty seven thousand, four hundred and sixty two dollars and seventy one cents ($4,557,462.71.)"

summary: Summary: In Abraham Lincoln's Annual Message to Congress on December 3, 1861, he suggests that Congress consider revising and consolidating all permanent and general acts into one or two volumes for easier reference. He acknowledges the difficulties in administering civil justice in the insurgent states due to the ongoing rebellion and refers the matter to Congress to devise a plan for temporary administration of justice in those areas. Lincoln also calls for a more convenient means to adjust claims against the government and considers giving the Court of Claims the power to make its judgments final, subject to appeal on legal questions to the Supreme Court. Finally, he presents a summary of the Postmaster General's report, highlighting the revenue and expenditure figures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1861.

keywords: Keywords:  acts of Congress, civil justice, insurgent states, Court of Claims, Postmaster General, revenue, expenditures.

