text_id: Text #: 14

source: Source:  At Peoria, Illinois. October 16, 1854.

full_text: "But NOW it is to be transformed into a sacred right.''\nNebraska brings it forth, places it on the high road to extension and perpetuity; and, with a pat on its back, says to it, Go, and God speed you.'' Henceforth it is to be the chief jewel of the nation---the very figure-head of the ship of State.\nLittle by little, but steadily as man's march to the grave, we have been giving up the OLD for the NEW faith. Near eighty years ago we began by declaring that all men are created equal; but now from that beginning we have run down to the other declaration, that for SOME men to enslave OTHERS is a sacred right of self-government.'' These principles can not stand together. They are as opposite as God and mammon; and whoever holds to the one, must despise the other.\nWhen Pettit, in connection with his support of the Nebraska bill, called the Declaration of Independence a self-evident lie'' he only did what consistency and candor require all other Nebraska men to do. Of the forty odd Nebraska Senators who sat present and heard him, no one rebuked him. Nor am I apprized that any Nebraska newspaper, or any Nebraska orator, in the whole nation, has ever yet rebuked him. If this had been said among Marion's men, Southerners though they were, what would have become of the man who said it? If this had been said to the men who captured Andre, the man who said it, would probably have been hung sooner than Andre was. If it had been said in old Independence Hall, seventy-eight years ago, the very door-keeper would have throttled the man, and thrust him into the street.\n\nLet no one be deceived. The spirit of seventy-six and the spirit of Nebraska, are utter antagonisms; and the former is being rapidly displaced by the latter.\n\nFellow countrymen---Americans south, as well as north, shall we make no effort to arrest this? Already the liberal party throughout the world, express the apprehension that the one retrograde institution in America, is undermining the principles of progress, and fatally violating the noblest political system the world ever saw.'' This is not the taunt of enemies, but the warning of friends. Is it quite safe to disregard it---to despise it? Is there no danger to liberty itself, in discarding the earliest practice, and first precept of our ancient faith? In our greedy chase to make profit of the negro, let us beware, lest we cancel and tear to pieces'' even the white man's charter of freedom.\n\nOur republican robe is soiled, and trailed in the dust. Let us repurify it. Let us turn and wash it white, in the spirit, if not the blood, of the Revolution. Let us turn slavery from its claims of moral right,'' back upon its existing legal rights, and its arguments of necessity.'' Let us return it to the position our fathers gave it; and there let it rest in peace. Let us re-adopt the Declaration of Independence, and with it, the practices, and policy, which harmonize with it. Let north and south---let all Americans---let all lovers of liberty everywhere---join in the great and good work. If we do this, we shall not only have saved the Union; but we shall have so saved it, as to make, and to keep it, forever worthy of the saving. We shall have so saved it, that the succeeding millions of free happy people, the world over, shall rise up, and call us blessed  to the latest generations.\n\nAt Springfield, twelve days ago, where I had spoken substantially as I have here, Judge Douglas replied to me---and as he is to reply to me here, I shall attempt to anticipate him, by noticing some of the points he made there.\n\nHe commenced by stating I had assumed all the way through, that the principle of the Nebraska bill, would have the effect of extending slavery. He denied that this was INTENDED, or that this EFFECT would follow.\n\nI will not re-open the argument upon this point. That such was the intention, the world believed at the start, and will continue to believe. This was the COUNTENANCE of the thing; and, both friends and enemies, instantly recognized it as such. That countenance can not now be changed by argument. You can as easily argue the color out of the negroes' skin. Like the ``bloody hand'' you may wash it, and wash it, the red witness of guilt still sticks, and stares horribly at you.\n\nNext he says, congressional intervention never prevented slavery, any where---that it did not prevent it in the north west territory, now [nor?] in Illinois---that in fact, Illinois came into the Union as a slave State---that the principle of the Nebraska bill expelled it from Illinois, from several old States, from every where."

summary: Summary: In this excerpt, Abraham Lincoln criticizes the transformation of slavery into a "sacred right" and asserts that the principles of the Declaration of Independence and the Nebraska bill are incompatible. He calls for Americans to recognize the dangers of abandoning their founding principles and the potential harm to liberty. Lincoln advocates for returning to the principles and policies of the Declaration of Independence and saving the Union in a way that upholds its values. He also addresses Stephen Douglas's response to his previous speech, maintaining that the world will continue to believe that the Nebraska bill was intended to extend slavery.

keywords: Keywords:  Abraham Lincoln, Nebraska bill, slavery, Declaration of Independence, liberty, founding principles, Judge Douglas, Union, progress, antagonisms, moral right, legal rights, necessity, American values.

