text_id: Text #: 2

source: Source:  At Peoria, Illinois. October 16, 1854.

full_text: "Thus originated the Missouri Compromise; and thus has it been respected down to 1845. And even four years later, in 1849, our distinguished Senator, in a public address, held the following language in relation to it:\n\n``The Missouri Compromise had been in practical operation for about a quarter of a century, and had received the sanction and approbation of men of all parties in every section of the Union. It had allayed all sectional jealousies and irritations growing out of this vexed question, and harmonized and tranquilized the whole country. It had given to Henry Clay, as its prominent champion, the proud sobriquet of the ``Great Pacificator'' and by that title and for that service, his political friends had repeatedly appealed to the people to rally under his standard, as a presidential candidate, as the man who had exhibited the patriotism and the power to suppress, an unholy and treasonable agitation, and preserve the Union. He was not aware that any man or any party from any section of the Union, had ever urged as an objection to Mr. Clay, that he was the great champion of the Missouri Compromise. On the contrary, the effort was made by the opponents of Mr. Clay, to prove that he was not entitled to the exclusive merit of that great patriotic measure, and that the honor was equally due to others as well as to him, for securing its adoption---that it had its origin in the hearts of all patriotic men, who desired to preserve and perpetuate the blessings of our glorious Union---an origin akin that of the constitution of the United States, conceived in the same spirit of fraternal affection, and calculated to remove forever, the only danger, which seemed to threaten, at some distant day, to sever the social bond of union. All the evidences of public opinion at that day, seemed to indicate that this Compromise had been canonized in the hearts of the American people, as a sacred thing which no ruthless hand would ever be reckless enough to disturb.''\n\nI do not read this extract to involve Judge Douglas in an inconsistency. If he afterwards thought he had been wrong, it was right for him to change. I bring this forward merely to show the high estimate placed on the Missouri Compromise by all parties up to so late as the year 1849.\n\nBut, going back a little, in point of time, our war with Mexico broke out in 1846. When Congress was about adjourning that session, President Polk asked them to place two millions of dollars under his control, to be used by him in the recess, if found practicable and expedient, in negociating a treaty of peace with Mexico, and acquiring some part of her territory. A bill was duly got up, for the purpose, and was progressing swimmingly, in the House of Representatives, when a member by the name of David Wilmot, a democrat from Pennsylvania, moved as an amendment ``Provided that in any territory thus acquired, there shall never be slavery.''\n\nThis is the origin of the far-famed ``Wilmot Proviso.'' It created a great flutter; but it stuck like wax, was voted into the bill, and the bill passed with it through the House. The Senate, however, adjourned without final action on it and so both appropriation and proviso were lost, for the time. The war continued, and at the next session, the president renewed his request for the appropriation, enlarging the amount, I think, to three million. Again came the proviso; and defeated the measure."

summary: Summary: In his Peoria, Illinois speech on October 16, 1854, Abraham Lincoln detailed the events surrounding the Missouri Compromise and its impact on the nation. He discussed the high regard for the Compromise by all parties, the 1846 war with Mexico, and the origin of the Wilmot Proviso. Lincoln also touched upon the expansion of U.S. territory through the treaty with Mexico and the continued efforts to restrict the spread of slavery in new territories.

keywords: Keywords:  Abraham Lincoln, Peoria, Illinois, Missouri Compromise, Stephen Douglas, Wilmot Proviso, David Wilmot, slavery, war with Mexico, treaty, New Mexico, Utah, California, Missouri line, Henry Clay, Great Pacificator, James Polk, Pennsylvania, House of Representatives, Senate.

