text_id: Text #: 20

source: Source:  A House Divided Speech. June 16, 1858.

full_text: "It should not be overlooked that, by the Nebraska bill, the people of a State as well as Territory, were to be left perfectly free'' subject only to the Constitution.''\n\nWhy mention a State? They were legislating for territories, and not for or about States. Certainly the people of a State are and ought to be subject to the Constitution of the United States; but why is mention of this lugged into this merely territorial law? Why are the people of a territory and the people of a state therein lumped together, and their relation to the Constitution therein treated as being precisely the same?\n\nWhile the opinion of the Court, by Chief Justice Taney, in the Dred Scott case, and the separate opinions of all the concurring Judges, expressly declare that the Constitution of the United States neither permits Congress nor a Territorial legislature to exclude slavery from any United States territory, they all omit to declare whether or not the same Constitution permits a state, or the people of a State, to exclude it.\n\nPossibly, this was a mere omission; but who can be quite sure, if McLean or Curtis [6] had sought to get into the opinion a declaration of unlimited power in the people of a state to exclude slavery from their limits, just as Chase and Macy [7] sought to get such declaration, in behalf of the people of a territory, into the Nebraska bill---I ask, who can be quite sure that it would not have been voted down, in the one case, as it had been in the other.\n\nThe nearest approach to the point of declaring the power of a State over slavery, is made by Judge Nelson. [8] He approaches it more than once, using the precise idea, and almost the language too, of the Nebraska act. On one occasion his exact language is, except in cases where the power is restrained by the Constitution of the United States, the law of the State is supreme over the subject of slavery within its jurisdiction.''\n\nIn what cases the power of the states is so restrained by the U.S. Constitution, is left an open question, precisely as the same question, as to the restraint on the power of the territories was left open in the Nebraska act. Put that and that together, and we have another nice little niche, which we may, ere long, see filled with another Supreme Court decision, declaring that the Constitution of the United States does not permit a state to exclude slavery from its limits.\n\nAnd this may especially be expected if the doctrine of care not whether slavery be voted down or voted up,'' shall gain upon the public mind sufficiently to give promise that such a decision can be maintained when made.\n\nSuch a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in all the States.\n\nWelcome or unwelcome, such decision is probably coming, and will soon be upon us, unless the power of the present political dynasty shall be met and overthrown.\n\nWe shall lie down pleasantly dreaming that the people of Missouri are on the verge of making their State free; and we shall awake to the reality, instead, that the Supreme Court has made Illinois a slave State.\n\nTo meet and overthrow the power of that dynasty, is the work now before all those who would prevent that consummation.\n\nThat is what we have to do.\n\nBut how can we best do it?\n\nThere are those who denounce us openly to their own friends, and yet whisper us softly, that Senator Douglas is the aptest instrument there is, with which to effect that object. They do not tell us, nor has he told us, that he wishes any such object to be effected. They wish us to infer all, from the facts, that he now has a little quarrel with the present head of the dynasty; and that he has regularly voted with us, on a single point, upon which, he and we, have never differed.\n\nThey remind us that he is a very great man, and that the largest of us are very small ones. Let this be granted. But a living dog is better than a dead lion.'' Judge Douglas, if not a dead lion for this work, is at least a caged and toothless one. How can he oppose the advances of slavery? He don't care anything about it. His avowed mission is impressing the public heart'' to care nothing about it.\n\nA leading Douglas Democratic newspaper thinks Douglas' superior talent will be needed to resist the revival of the African slave trade.\n\nDoes Douglas believe an effort to revive that trade is approaching? He has not said so. Does he really think so? But if it is, how can he resist it? For years he has labored to prove it a sacred right of white men to take negro slaves into the new territories. Can he possibly show that it is less a sacred right to buy them where they can be bought cheapest? And, unquestionably they can be bought cheaper in Africa than in Virginia. He has done all in his power to reduce the whole question of slavery to one of a mere right of property; and as such, how can he oppose the foreign slave trade---how can he refuse that trade in that ``property'' shall be ``perfectly free''---unless he does it as a protection to the home production? And as the home producers will probably not ask the protection, he will be wholly without a ground of opposition.\n\nSenator Douglas holds, we know, that a man may rightfully be wiser to-day than he was yesterday---that he may rightfully change when he finds himself wrong.\n\nBut, can we for that reason, run ahead, and infer that he will make any particular change, of which he, himself, has given no intimation? Can we safely base our action upon any such vague inference?\n\nNow, as ever, I wish to not misrepresent Judge Douglas' position, question his motives, or do ought that can be personally offensive to him.\n\nWhenever, if ever, he and we can come together on principle so that our great cause may have assistance from his great ability, I hope to have interposed no adventitious obstacle.\n\nBut clearly, he is not now with us---he does not pretend to be---he does not promise to ever be.\n\nOur cause, then, must be intrusted to, and conducted by its own undoubted friends---those whose hands are free, whose hearts are in the work---who do care for the result.\n\nTwo years ago the Republicans of the nation mustered over thirteen hundred thousand strong.\n\nWe did this under the single impulse of resistance to a common danger, with every external circumstance against us.\n\nOf strange, discordant, and even, hostile elements, we gathered from the four winds, and formed and fought the battle through, under the constant hot fire of a disciplined, proud, and pampered enemy.\n\nDid we brave all then, to falter now?---now---when that same enemy is wavering, dissevered and belligerent?\n\nThe result is not doubtful. We shall not fail---if we stand firm, we shall not fail.\n\nWise councils may accelerate or mistakes delay it, but, sooner or later the victory is sure to come."

summary: Summary: In this section of the "House Divided" speech, Abraham Lincoln criticizes the inclusion of states in the Nebraska bill and speculates on the potential consequences of the Dred Scott decision. He raises concerns that the decision might lead to a future Supreme Court ruling that could make slavery lawful in all states. Lincoln rejects the notion that Senator Douglas is the best person to fight against the expansion of slavery, as he has promoted indifference towards the issue. He calls upon Republicans to unite and work together to confront the threat of slavery's expansion, asserting that victory is certain if they remain steadfast in their convictions.

keywords: Keywords:  House Divided, Abraham Lincoln, Nebraska bill, Dred Scott decision, slavery, Stephen Douglas, indifference, Republicans, unity, confrontation, victory.

