text_id: Text #: 9

source: Source:  At Peoria, Illinois. October 16, 1854.

full_text: "But one great argument in the support of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, is still to come. That argument is the sacred right of self government.'' It seems our distinguished Senator has found great difficulty in getting his antagonists, even in the Senate to meet him fairly on this argument---some poet has said\n\nFools rush in where angels fear to tread.''\n\nAt the hazzard of being thought one of the fools of this quotation, I meet that argument---I rush in, I take that bull by the horns.\n\nI trust I understand, and truly estimate the right of self-government. My faith in the proposition that each man should do precisely as he pleases with all which is exclusively his own, lies at the foundation of the sense of justice there is in me. I extend the principles to communities of men, as well as to individuals. I so extend it, because it is politically wise, as well as naturally just; politically wise, in saving us from broils about matters which do not concern us. Here, or at Washington, I would not trouble myself with the oyster laws of Virginia, or the cranberry laws of Indiana.\n\nThe doctrine of self government is right---absolutely and eternally right---but it has no just application, as here attempted. Or perhaps I should rather say that whether it has such just application depends upon whether a negro is not or is a man. If he is not a man, why in that case, he who is a man may, as a matter of self-government, do just as he pleases with him. But if the negro is a man, is it not to that extent, a total destruction of self-government, to say that he too shall not govern himself? When the white man governs himself that is self-government; but when he governs himself, and also governs another man, that is more than self-government---that is despotism. If the negro is a man, why then my ancient faith teaches me that all men are created equal;'' and that there can be no moral right in connection with one man's making a slave of another.\n\nJudge Douglas frequently, with bitter irony and sarcasm, paraphrases our argument by saying The white people of Nebraska are good enough to govern themselves, but they are not good enough to govern a few miserable negroes!!''\n\nWell I doubt not that the people of Nebraska are, and will continue to be as good as the average of people elsewhere. I do not say the contrary. What I do say is, that no man is good enough to govern another man, without that other's consent. I say this is the leading principle---the sheet anchor of American republicanism. Our Declaration of Independence says:\n\n``We hold these truths to be self evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, DERIVING THEIR JUST POWERS FROM THE CONSENT OF THE GOVERNED.''\n\nI have quoted so much at this time merely to show that according to our ancient faith, the just powers of governments are derived from the consent of the governed. Now the relation of masters and slaves is, PRO TANTO, a total violation of this principle. The master not only governs the slave without his consent; but he governs him by a set of rules altogether different from those which he prescribes for himself. Allow ALL the governed an equal voice in the government, and that, and that only is self government.\n\nLet it not be said that I am contending for the establishment of political and social equality between the whites and blacks. I have already said the contrary. I am not now combating the argument of NECESSITY, arising from the fact that the blacks are already amongst us; but I am combating what is set up as MORAL argument for allowing them to be taken where they have never yet been---arguing against the EXTENSION of a bad thing, which where it already exists, we must of necessity, manage as we best can.\n\nIn support of his application of the doctrine of self-government, Senator Douglas has sought to bring to his aid the opinions and examples of our revolutionary fathers. I am glad he has done this. I love the sentiments of those old-time men; and shall be most happy to abide by their opinions. He shows us that when it was in contemplation for the colonies to break off from Great Britain, and set up a new government for themselves, several of the states instructed their delegates to go for the measure PROVIDED EACH STATE SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO REGULATE ITS DOMESTIC CONCERNS IN ITS OWN WAY. I do not quote; but this in substance. This was right. I see nothing objectionable in it. I also think it probable that it had some reference to the existence of slavery amongst them. I will not deny that it had. But had it, in any reference to the carrying of slavery into NEW COUNTRIES? That is the question; and we will let the fathers themselves answer it."

summary: Summary: In this passage, Abraham Lincoln addresses the argument of self-government in relation to the repeal of the Missouri Compromise. He asserts that the concept of self-government is fundamentally right but questions its application to the issue of slavery. Lincoln argues that true self-government cannot exist when one person governs another without consent. He cites the Declaration of Independence as the basis of this belief, stating that the just powers of governments come from the consent of the governed. He clarifies that he is not advocating for political and social equality between whites and blacks, but rather arguing against the extension of slavery into new territories. Finally, he discusses the opinions and examples of the founding fathers, asserting that their support for self-government did not extend to carrying slavery into new territories.

keywords: Keywords:  Abraham Lincoln, speech, self-government, Missouri Compromise, slavery, consent, Declaration of Independence, founding fathers, American republicanism, new territories, despotism, moral argument.

